Add documentation (#989)
MetaMask/controllers: docs/preview-builds.md

> # Testing monorepo changes against other projects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Using your forked version as a dependency in other modules
```
Or something like that?

> Let's say that you're working on a feature in one of our products and this feature relies on changes that you need to make to one or more packages within this repo. You make those changes here, but now you want to make sure that they fulfill the need you have in your product and don't break anything. How do you integrate these changes into your product?

Reviewer: I actually had to do a reread to get this one. Let's see if we can make it more straightforward. I also think it can work better within a context (maybe it can be a section under `common_tasks.md` rather than an independent file?)

(*Initial attempt, I'm not proposing it*):

```suggestion
Commonly, you will want to use controllers in external projects, including changes you are working on. There are different ways to do this. When working locally, you may be using [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v9/commands/npm-link) or [yarn link](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/cli/link/), or changing the `dependencies` in `package.json` of your downstream package to something like `"@metamask/foo-controller": "file:///home/user/src/metamask/packages/foo-controller"`.

This will usually not work easily in instrumented CI builds and other more restricted environments.
```
...Then I started writing about hosting a private registry using [Verdaccio](https://verdaccio.org/) as an alternative.

Do you think it might make more sense to mention preview builds as one option among several (in which the instructions below can still be its own subsection)? I'd be happy to take a stab at part of it if it sounds good to you @mcmire - I think it shouldn't be too hard to get an unpermissioned option going as well.

Reviewer: And to you point in the PR comment, the contents of this file is what I would say might belong better in a blog post or article.

Reviewer 2: I found this a bit challenging to read as well.

Just to clarify though, the solution we're describing here _is_ using a private registry. We're using the GitHub Packages registry. This "preview build" system is just a convenient way of publishing arbitrary commits.

Rather than manually publishing, a user can instead type `@metamaskbot preview-build`, and it will build and publish everything for you.

Regarding alternatives, publishing is the only strategy that we've found to work with CI. For local development there are alternatives, though it's not easy to explain all of the caveats to getting those working either.

Reviewer 2: This article might be improved by summarizing the problem scenario more concisely, then proceeding directly to the solution rather than enumerating alternatives first. We can leave alternative strategies for the end.

e.g.
```suggestion
Commonly, you will want to test your changes both locally and in CI before they are merged or published. Our use of the `workspace:` protocol prevents most common strategies from working because it doesn't get resolved until the package is published. We have setup scripts to publish "preview" builds to a private registry to make it easier to test changes while they are still under review.
```

Reviewer: I do agree with the reasoning of your last proposal @Gudahtt . Just two things:

1. Can this be communicated without using "we"/"us"?
2. "We have setup scripts" could be read as referring to `yarn setup`, resulting in confusion. Making one of the words into a link to the relevant script would make things a lot more clear.

Previously you might have used the "commit id" method to solve this problem, where you:

- push up a branch in this repo
- copy the commit id of the latest commit on that branch
- open `package.json` in your project
- replace the version of some package with `MetaMask/controllers#<commit id>`

That method won't work anymore (at least until we have all repos using Yarn v3). So now what do you do?

Enter **preview builds**. These are ephemeral versions of packages which are built on demand and published to GitHub Package Registry.

To use them, you'll need to do a few of things:

> 1. You'll need to create a personal access token within your GitHub account. If you have not already done so, go into the [token settings for your account](https://github.com/settings/tokens) and [create a token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token#creating-a-personal-access-token-classic). (Note: there are two types of tokens; you'll want a **classic** token.)

Reviewer: I think we can assume the reader knows how to get a GH access token (or look it up elsewhere)? Emphasis on classic seems relevant, though.

Reviewer 2: The linked article is the official documentation. That does seem like the best place to point people. I guess we could shorten this sentence to omit the "go into the token settings" part, as that's already covered by the article as well.

Reviewer: Something like this?
```suggestion
1. You'll need to create a **classic** [personal access token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token#creating-a-personal-access-token-classic).
```
alternatively,
```suggestion
1. You'll need to [create](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token#creating-a-personal-access-token-classic) a **classic** personal access token.
```

2. In your product, you'll need to add an `.npmrc` file with the following content:

   ```
   @metamask:registry=https://npm.pkg.github.com

   //npm.pkg.github.com/:_authToken=<insert your personal access token here>
   ```

> 3. Over here in `controllers`, push up a draft PR for this repo (or place an existing PR into draft mode), then make a comment on the PR with the text:

Reviewer: We should probably make it normative that people run CI on their own branches? (As-is this not explicit about it, considering "this repo" technically depends on if you read it before or after forking). Consider that this will also be perused by people unaffiliated with the MetaMask team.
Would there be additional setup instructions (like [here](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/enabling-features-for-your-repository/managing-github-actions-settings-for-a-repository#managing-github-actions-permissions-for-your-repository) we should mention or link to to capture that?

```suggestion
3. In you fork of `MetaMask/controllers`, create a draft PR for this repo (or place an existing PR into draft mode), then make a comment on the PR with the text:
```

Reviewer 2: This trigger only works for branches on this repo. Forks aren't supported by preview builds. We have been encouraging people on the team _not_ to use forks, because compatibility with certain CI steps is worse.

It's difficult to safely build any integrations that work with forks _and_ allow interacting with the upstream repo. We don't want to give untrusted third parties access to a write token for this repository for example, even one scoped just to comments, because that would let them create fake `metamaskbot` comments.

Reviewer: I guess I have to look into preview builds and try it out to see how the limitations arise.

Some of the below is just opinion, even if I write normatively.

Without having seen more than 1 case of things behaving differently, it seems like when it comes to producing builds and uploading them, there is fundamentally nothing apart from setting different registry and access token etc that should differ...? Ie everything done in this central repo should be doable transparently on forks as long as the expected env vars / secrets are there.

This is also with the assumption that we want to allow contributors on equal terms even if they're not part of the MM org. Even if we'd say and think we do, failing CI steps, as well as documentation presented as general but effectively only relevant for MM org internal use (I believe that first-time contributors need manual approval to have their draft PRs builds, and that having a draft PR pop up here for everyone who want to make a build is going to become untenable sooner than later) make that less likely and affect expectations, reducing probability of potential contributors actually engaging constructively.

Consider also overage costs and throughput for CI - things add up.

I completely understand that documentation should reflect reality. But I also would like to accommodate and normalize a more distributed flow. Perhaps this file/section can stay on the cooler (that is, pull it out of this PR for now to not block) until the outstanding CI issues are resolved and we can present something that can also set best practices and be more generally applicable?

Until then (given some of the complications above), and without clearer enumeration of alternatives (talked about below), I'd consider this internal docs rather than something that's useful to make public.

Author: One question I have here as I rewrite this is, why are we requiring the `@metamask-bot` comment to only work on draft PRs? I feel like it complicates things a bit because I have to include this bit:

> Continue to keep your `controllers` PR in draft mode until you're sure that you don't need to make any new changes. If you do push up a new commit to your PR, however, simply post another `@metamask-bot preview-build` comment and this will trigger another build.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we are doing that. We used the preview-builds command for the v34 release PR well after bringing it out of draft.

We're requiring extension and mobile PRs that utilize these builds to be draft PRs, so that we don't accidentally merge preview builds into the main branch.

```
@metamask-bot preview-build
```

> This will trigger a GitHub Action which will build all of the packages in the monorepo using the code in the branch and publish them to GitHub Package Registry. You might need to wait a bit, but after a few minutes, you'll see a new comment with the new version that was published. 4. Back in your project, look for the package where you made your changes and replace its version with the one posted in the comment. 5. Run `yarn install`. You should be using the changes now. 5. Continue to keep your `controllers` PR in draft mode until you're sure that you don't need to make any new changes. If you do push up a new commit to your PR, however, simply post another `@metamask-bot preview-build` comment and this will trigger another build.

Reviewer: This looks like it's intended to or used to be a numbered list?

Author: Oops! Not sure why I didn't catch this 😬
